Matthew 9:35 explains
that “Jesus set out on a tour
“of all the cities
and villages [of Galilee], . . .
preaching the good news of the Kingdom.”
Thus, rather than slowing down
toward the end of his earthly ministry,
he expanded his efforts
to reach more people.
In the same way,
the Service Committee,
under the direction of the Governing Body,
is expanding
and accelerating
the life-saving preaching work
right up to the end.
One way the Service Committee
accomplishes this
is through the service departments
in each branch office.
In harmony with the Bible principle
to “let all things take place decently
and by arrangement,”
the service departments coordinate
the preaching work.
Let’s take a behind-the-scenes look
at how the work
of the Service Department in each branch
benefits us.
The Field Ministers Desk
coordinates the assignments
of special full-time servants
who take the lead
in the preaching work.
Globally,
there are over 45,000
special full-time servants in the field,
serving in the circuit work,
as special pioneers,
and as field missionaries.
The Governing Body knows that they need
practical assistance
to carry out their assignments.
Thus, the Field Ministers Desk
looks after their spiritual
and physical needs.
This desk helps to find suitable housing
and also ensures
that they receive shepherding
and encouragement,
especially when they’re facing
challenges in their assignment,
such as health issues or family emergencies.
In order to reach as many people as possible,
the Preaching Needs Desk
oversees a wide range of matters
involving the preaching work
of the entire branch territory.
The Preaching Needs Desk
is involved in establishing
special preaching campaigns.
They start by considering
if there is sufficient interest
and resources to justify a campaign.
Sometimes a campaign is supported
from within the branch territory,
and sometimes
a request is made for international support.
I’ve been privileged to share
in four different special
preaching campaigns.
In their own way,
they each had a life-changing impact on me.
It was really nice to witness to people
who had never heard about Jehovah before
and had never spoken to Jehovah’s Witnesses.
One young man I met was my age.
He was all alone in the refugee camp.
His entire family had died
in his home country when
their house was hit by a bomb.
We were able to share
the Bible’s promise of a resurrection
and introduce him to the congregation,
where he began attending meetings.
It was a special experience
I will never forget.
The Preaching Needs Desk
also coordinates arrangements
for special metropolitan public witnessing.
When thinking of possible locations,
the brothers look for cities
with dense populations and areas
with significant pedestrian,
or foot, traffic.
When they find an area with good potential,
capable brothers are assigned
to coordinate the work.
This is similar to the way
that harbor witnessing is arranged.
In some areas,
there are hundreds
or even thousands of volunteers,
so good coordination is extremely important.
More workers are needed in the harvest,
so it’s encouraging to see Jehovah’s people
eagerly respond to the call
and share in public or harbor witnessing,
support special preaching campaigns,
or serve where the need is greater.
At this unique time in history
when all of God’s people
are exerting themselves
to preach the good news in all the earth,
the service departments appreciate
the privilege
to help organize this great work
that Jehovah is accomplishing.